{"name": "book 1, Chapter 6", "summary": "Chapter 6: The Shoemaker Manette reports, in a voice gone faint with \"solitude and disuse,\" that he is making a lady's shoe in the \"present mode,\" or fashion, even though he has never seen the present fashion. When asked his name, he responds, \"One Hundred and Five, North Tower. Lucie approaches. Noticing her radiant golden hair, Manette opens a knot of rag that he wears around his neck, in which he keeps a strand of similarly golden curls. At first, Manette mistakes Lucie for his wife and recalls that, on the first day of his imprisonment, he begged to be allowed to keep these few stray hairs of his wife's as a means of escaping his circumstances \"in the spirit. Lucie delivers an impassioned speech, imploring her father to weep if her voice or her hair recalls a loved one whom he once knew. She hints to him of the home that awaits him and assures him that his \"agony is over. Manette collapses under a storm of emotion; Lucie urges that arrangements be made for his immediate departure for England. Fearing for Manette's health, Lorry protests, but Lucie insists that travel guarantees more safety than a continued stay in Paris. Defarge agrees and ushers the group into a coach", "analysis": "Chapters 5-6 In Chapters 5 and 6, Dickens introduces the reader to the first of the novel's two principal cities: Paris. The scramble for the leaking wine that opens \"The Wine-shop\" remains one of the most remembered  passages in the novel. In it, Dickens prepares the sweeping historical backdrop against which the tale of Lucie and Doctor Manette plays out. Although the French Revolution will not erupt for another fourteen years, the broken wine cask conveys the suffering and rage that will lead the French peasantry to revolt. The scene surrounding the wine cask contains a nightmarish quality. In clambering to feed on the dregs, the members of the mob stain themselves with wine. The liquid smears the peasants' hands, feet, and faces, foreshadowing the approaching chaos during which the blood of aristocrats and political dissidents will run as freely. The ominous scrawling of the word blood on the wall similarly prefigures the violence. Dickens here betrays his conflicted ideas regarding the revolution. While he acknowledges, throughout the novel, the horrible conditions that led the peasantry to violence, he never condones the peasants' actions. In his text the mob remains a frightening beast, manifesting a threat of danger rather than the promise of freedom: \"Those who had been greedy with the staves of the cask, had acquired a tigerish smear about the mouth.\" Dickens uses several techniques to criticize the corrupt circumstances of the peasants' oppression. He proves a master of irony and sarcasm, as becomes clear in his many biting commentaries; thus we read, \" entertained herself . . . with such humane achievements as sentencing a youth to have . . . his body burned alive\". Dickens also makes great use of anaphora, a rhetorical device wherein a word or phrase appears repeated in successive clauses or sentences. His meditation on hunger, which he cites as a defining impetus behind the peasants' imminent uprising, serves as a perfect example of how the author uses repetition to emphasize his point:", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section3/"}